= gitolite

This gem is designed to provide a Ruby interface to the {gitolite}[https://github.com/sitaramc/gitolite] git backend system.  I am aiming to provide all management functionality that is available via the gitolite-admin repository (like SSH keys, repository permissions, etc)

This gem can still have problems.  Please file an issue if you encounter a bug.  If you have a feature request, file one please.

The gem is still listed as alpha on rubygems.  Once Issue #7 is resolved, the gem will move to 1.0

== Features
* Allows for the creation and management of repos within gitolite
* Allows for the creation and deletion of SSH keys within gitolite
* Allows for the bootstrapping of a gitolite-admin repository

== Issues
* Gem is not thread safe.  For now, the gem will change directories in order to perform git operations.  It will, however, return to the old working directory once it is finished.  I am looking into making the gem thread safe.

== Requirements
* Ruby 1.8.x or 1.9.x
* a working {gitolite}[https://github.com/sitaramc/gitolite] installation
* the <tt>gitolite-admin</tt> repository checked out locally

== Installation

  gem install gitolite --pre

== Usage

=== Load a gitolite-admin repo

  require 'gitolite'
  ga_repo = Gitolite::GitoliteAdmin.new("/path/to/gitolite/admin/repo")

This method can only be called on an existing gitolite-admin repo.  If you need to create a new gitolite-admin repo, see "Bootstrapping".

=== Configuration Files

  conf = ga_repo.config

  #Empty configs can also be initialized
  conf2 = Config.init # => defaults to a filename of gitolite.conf
  conf2 = Config.init("new_config.conf")

  #Filename is set to whatever the filename was when the config was created
  conf.filename # => "gitolite.conf"
  conf2.filename # => "new_config.conf")

  #filename can be changed via the setter
  conf2.filename = "new_config.conf"

  #to_file will write the config out to the file system
  #using the value of the filename attribute.  An alternative
  #filename can also be specified
  conf.to_file("/new/config/path") # => writes /new/config/path/gitolite.conf
  conf.to_file("/new/config/path", "test.conf") # => writes /new/config/path/test.conf

=== Repo management

  repo = Gitolite::Config::Repo.new("AwesomeRepo")

  #For a list of permissions, see https://github.com/sitaramc/gitolite/blob/pu/doc/gitolite.conf.mkd
  repo.add_permission("RW+", "", "bob", "joe", "susan")

  #Add repo to config
  conf.add_repo(repo)

  #Delete repo by object
  conf.rm_repo(repo)

  #Delete a repo by name
  conf.rm_repo("AwesomeRepo")
  conf.rm_repo(:AwesomeRepo)

  #Test if repo exists by name
  conf.has_repo?('cool_repo') # => false
  conf.has_repo?(:cool_repo) # => false

  #Can also pass a Gitolite::Config::Repo object
  repo = Gitolite::Config::Repo.new('cool_repo')
  conf.has_repo?(repo) # => true

  #Get a repo object from the config
  repo = conf.get_repo('cool_repo')
  repo = conf.get_repo(:cool_repo)

=== SSH Key Management

  #Three ways to create keys: manually, from an existing key, or from a string representing a key
  key = Gitolite::SSHKey.new("ssh-rsa", "big-public-key-blob", "email")
  key2 = Gitolite::SSHKey.from_file("/path/to/ssh/key.pub")

  key_string = File.read("/path/to/ssh/key.pub")
  key3 = Gitolite::SSHKey.from_string(key_string, "owner")


  #Add the keys
  ga_repo.add_key(key)
  ga_repo.add_key(key2)
  ga_repo.add_key(key3)

  #Remove key2
  ga_repo.rm_key(key2)

=== Save changes

  ga_repo.save

When this method is called, all changes get written to the file system and staged in git.  For the time being, gitolite assumes full control of the gitolite-admin repository.  This means that any keys in the keydir that are not being tracked will be removed and any human changes to gitolite.conf will be erased.

=== Apply changes
  ga_repo.apply

This method will commit all changes with a generic message (will be improved upon later) and push to <tt>origin master</tt>.

=== Save and apply
  ga_repo.save_and_apply

=== Updating remote changes
  #In order to avoid conflicts, this will perform a reset! by default
  #pass :reset => false to disable the reset (Git conflicts will have to be manually fixed)
  ga_repo.update
  ga_repo.update(:reset => false)

  #Update while performing a rebase
  ga_repo.update(:rebase => true)

=== Reloading from the file system
  ga_repo.reload!

=== Resetting to HEAD, destroying all local changes (including untracked files)
  #This will also perform a reload!
  ga_repo.reset!

=== Bootstrapping
  ga_repo = GitoliteAdmin.bootstrap("/path/to/new/gitolite/repo")

This will create the folders <tt>conf</tt> and <tt>keydir</tt> in the supplied path.  A config file will also be created in the conf directory.  The default configuration supplies RW+ permissions to a user named git for a repo named <tt>gitolite-admin</tt>.  You can specify an options hash to change some values:

  ga_repo = GitoliteAdmin.bootstrap("/path/to/new/gitolite/repo", {:user => "admin", :perm => "RW"})

You can also pass a message to be used for the initial bootstrap commit:

  ga_repo = GitoliteAdmin.bootstrap("/path/to/new/gitolite/repo", {:message => "Bootstrapped new repo"})

Please note that while bootstrapping is supported, I highly recommend that the initial gitolite-admin repo be created by gitolite itself.

== Caveats
=== Windows compatibility
The grit gem (which is used for under-the-hood git operations) does not currently support Windows.  Until it does, gitolite will be unable to support Windows.

== Contributing
* Tests!  If you ask me to pull changes that are not adequately tested,  I'm not going to do it.
* If you introduce new features/public methods on objects, you must update the README.

=== Contributors
* Alexander Simonov - {simonoff}[https://github.com/simonoff]

== Documentation
* Rdoc is coming soon

== Future
* support folders in the keydir
* support include tags
* support pull operations to sync the local gitolite-admin repository with the server
* cleanup methods to make adding and removing easier (like add_key should accept an array of keys)
* Rails integration
* Make the gem thread safe
* Add full support for Wildcard repos
